feat: Add Allow/Disable Messages Passthrough (#112)
NRCHKB/NRCHKB.github.io: content/wiki/nodes/service-node/index.md

---
title: "Service Node"
description: "This node represents Service in HomeKit"
lead: ""
lead: "This node represents the Service displayed in Home.app."
date: 2021-05-06T00:00:00+02:00
lastmod: 2021-09-30T18:52:26.967Z
lastmod: 2022-01-19T13:44:54.630Z
draft: false
images: []
menu:
  docs:
    parent: "nodes"
weight: 20
toc: true
contributors: ["Shaquu"]
contributors: ["Shaquu","GogoVega"]
---

This node represents Service in HomeKit.

> When hosted behind the [Bridge]({{< ref "/wiki/nodes/host-node" >}} "Host Node") it will also represent Accessory.

Reviewer: Are we sure we want to remove that part? In my opinion, it might be crucial for user to understand that most of the time Service ~= Accessory

Author: @Shaquu Tell me if you're okay? And sorry I forgot to correct the capitals (17-18,263)

    <td style="text-align:center;"></td>
    <td style="text-align:center;">X</td>
    <td style="text-align:center;"></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Topic</td>
    <td style="text-align:center;">X</td>
    <td style="text-align:center;">X</td>
    <td style="text-align:center;">X</td>
    <td style="text-align:center;">X</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Filter on Topic</td>
    <td style="text-align:center;">X</td>
    <td style="text-align:center;">X</td>
    <td style="text-align:center;">X</td>
    <td style="text-align:center;">X</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Name</td>
    <td style="text-align:center;">X</td>
    <td style="text-align:center;">X</td>
    <td style="text-align:center;">X</td>
    <td style="text-align:center;">X</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Characteristic Properties</td>
    <td style="text-align:center;">X</td>
    <td style="text-align:center;">X</td>
    <td style="text-align:center;">X</td>
    <td style="text-align:center;">X</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Wait for Setup</td>
    <td style="text-align:center;">X</td>
    <td style="text-align:center;">X</td>
    <td style="text-align:center;">X</td>
    <td style="text-align:center;">X</td>
  </tr>
</tbody>

> </table>

Reviewer 2: I like this table.

| Parent | Node will be used as Primary Service. The Primary Service must match the primary function of the accessory and must also match with the accessory category. An accessory must expose only one primary service from its list of available services. |
| Linked | Node will be used as a Linked Service. Linked Services allows accessories to specify logical relationship between services. A service can link to one or more services. A service must not link to itself. Service links have context and meaning only to the first level of services that it links to. |

> {{< alert icon="👉" >}}Learn more about Linked Service .{{< /alert >}}

Reviewer: Missing link?

Reviewer: Let's create blank page

| Accessory | Service will be hosted as Standalone Accessory. |

### Bridge

You can select already created [Bridge Node]({{< ref "/wiki/nodes/host-node" >}} "Host Node") or create a new one.

- By clicking button with a pencil icon next to it, you can edit currently selected Bridge
- You can also create a new one by clicking the same button when *Add new homekit-bridge...* is selected. ![Adding new HomeKit Bridge](add-new-homekit-bridge.png)

{{< alert icon="💡" >}}<strong>Important Notice,</strong> when you create a new Bridge for Service Node that is in a subflow, once deployed new Bridge will be created for each Subflow instance in a flow. If you create a Bridge outside a Subflow then it will be created only once (reused)..{{< /alert >}}

### Accessory

You can select already created [Standalone Accessory Node]({{< ref "/wiki/nodes/host-node" >}} "Host Node") or create a new one.

- By clicking button with a pencil icon next to it, you can edit currently selected Accessory
- You can also create a new one by clicking the same button when *Add new homekit-standalone...* is selected. ![Adding new HomeKit Standalone Accessory](add-new-homekit-standalone-accessory.png)

> {{< alert icon="💡" >}}Accessory is used for particular services (television, smart speaker) in order to create a bridge specific to this service and thus avoid display problems in Home.app.{{< /alert >}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< alert icon="💡" >}}Accessory is used for particular services (Television, Smart Speaker) in order to create a bridge specific to this service and thus avoid display problems in Home.app.{{< /alert >}}
```

Let's try to keep specific names like services names (Television, Fan), node names (Bridge, Service) capitalized.

> <!-- Ajouter note sur Accessory dans les services concernés -->

Reviewer: Some leftover :)

### Fields

Below is a list of fields that you can fill, it is not mandatory but it can be used to identify the characteristics of your services.

- Manufacturer
- Serial Number
- Model
- Firmware Revision
- Hardware Revision
- Software Revision

### Topic

The topic does two things:

> - at the entrance of the Homekit node, it allows you to filter incoming messages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- at the entrance of the HomeKit node, it allows you to filter incoming messages.
```

> - at the exit of the Homekit node, it identifies which node sent a command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- at the exit of the HomeKit node, it identifies which node sent a command.
```

> {{< alert icon="👉" >}}Learn more about Topic .{{< /alert >}}

Reviewer: Missing link/ref

### Filter on Topic

> This option is used to filter messages entering the Homekit node. It will only pass messages with the matching `msg.topic`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This option is used to filter messages entering the HomeKit node. It will only pass messages with the matching `msg.topic`.
```

{{< alert icon="💡" >}}<strong>Warning:</strong> if you rename a service, it will be initialized by HomeKit. This means that it is considered a new service and will have lost the configurations saved in Home.app (room, automation, scene). In order to avoid this, it is recommended to create one bridge per room.{{< /alert >}}

### Characteristic Properties

Characteristic Properties tell HomeKit that the service will use that characteristic and set desired limits.

{{< alert icon="👉" >}}Learn more about [Characteristic Properties]({{< ref "/wiki/introduction/characteristics" >}} "Characteristics").{{< /alert >}}

### Wait for Setup

Wait for Setup is ....?

{{< alert icon="👉" >}}Learn more about [Wait for Setup]({{< ref "/wiki/introduction/wait-for-setup" >}} "Wait for Setup").{{< /alert >}}

## Input messages

Input messages have the following structure:

```js
msg = { 
    "payload": {
        "Characteristics": Value
    }
}
```

{{< alert icon="💡" text="Characteristics are available on each Service page." />}}

## Output messages

> Output messages uses the Input messages structure with the particularity of being able to allows/deactivate passthrough messages and msg.hap.

Reviewer: allow or disallow?

> Output messages uses the Input messages structure with the particularity of being able to allows/deactivate passthrough messages and msg.hap.

Author: Output messages use the structure of the input messages with the particularity of having in addition `msg.hap` when the request comes from HomeKit and of having the possibility of being able to allow or disallow passthrough messages.

{{< alert icon="⚠" >}}**Important Notice,** when you create a new Bridge for Service Node that is in a subflow, once deployed new Bridge will be created for each Subflow instance in a flow. If you create a Bridge outside a Subflow then it will be created only once (reused)..{{< /alert >}}

### Accessory

You can select already created [Standalone Accessory Node]({{< ref "/wiki/nodes/host-node" >}} "Host Node") or create a new one.

- By clicking button with a pencil icon next to it, you can edit currently selected Accessory
- You can also create a new one by clicking the same button when *Add new homekit-standalone...* is selected. ![Adding new HomeKit Standalone Accessory](add-new-homekit-standalone-accessory.png)

{{< alert icon="💡" >}}Accessory is used for particular services (Television, Smart Speaker) in order to create a bridge specific to this service and thus avoid display problems in Home.app.{{< /alert >}}

### Fields

Below is a list of fields that you can fill, it is not mandatory but it can be used to identify the characteristics of your services.

- Manufacturer
- Serial Number
- Model
- Firmware Revision
- Hardware Revision
- Software Revision

### Topic

> The topic does two things:
> - at the entrance of the HomeKit node, it allows you to filter incoming messages.
> - at the exit of the HomeKit node, it identifies which node sent a command.

Author: ```suggestion
The Topic serves two purposes:
- at the entrance to the HomeKit node, it allows messages to be filtered.
- at the exit of the HomeKit node, it identifies the message.
```

> {{< alert icon="👉" >}}Learn more about [Topic]({{< ref "/wiki/introduction/topic" >}} "Topic").{{< /alert >}}

Author: ```suggestion
{{< alert icon="👉" >}}Learn more about [Topic]({{< ref "/wiki/nodes/topic" >}} "Topic").{{< /alert >}}
```

### Filter on Topic

This option is used to filter messages entering the HomeKit node. It will only pass messages with the matching `msg.topic`.

### Name

This name will be displayed on your node and also in Home.app. It is also possible to change the name in Home.app of your service but this will not change the name of your node.

{{< alert icon="⚠" >}}**Warning:** if you rename a service, it will be initialized by HomeKit. This means that it is considered a new service and will have lost the configurations saved in Home.app (room, automation, scene). In order to avoid this, it is recommended to create one bridge per room.{{< /alert >}}

### Characteristic Properties

Characteristic Properties tell HomeKit that the service will use that characteristic and set desired limits.

> {{< alert icon="👉" >}}Learn more about [Characteristic Properties]({{< ref "/wiki/introduction/characteristics" >}} "Characteristics").{{< /alert >}}

Author: ```suggestion
{{< alert icon="👉" >}}Learn more about [Characteristic Properties]({{< ref "/wiki/nodes/characteristics" >}} "Characteristics").{{< /alert >}}
```

### Wait for Setup

Wait for Setup is ....?

> {{< alert icon="👉" >}}Learn more about [Wait for Setup]({{< ref "/wiki/introduction/wait-for-setup" >}} "Wait for Setup").{{< /alert >}}

Author: ```suggestion
{{< alert icon="👉" >}}Learn more about [Wait for Setup]({{< ref "/wiki/nodes/wait-for-setup" >}} "Wait for Setup").{{< /alert >}}
```

## Input Messages

Input messages have the following structure:

```js
msg = { 
    "payload": {
        "Characteristics": Value
    }
}
```

{{< alert icon="💡" text="Characteristics are available on each Service page." />}}

## Output Messages

Output Messages use the structure of the Input Messages with the particularity of having in addition `msg.hap` when the request comes from HomeKit and of having the possibility of being able to allow or disallow Passthrough Messages.

> {{< alert icon="👉" >}}Learn more about [Output Messages]({{< ref "/wiki/introduction/output-messages" >}} "Output Messages").{{< /alert >}}

Author: ```suggestion
{{< alert icon="👉" >}}Learn more about [Output Messages]({{< ref "/wiki/nodes/output-messages" >}} "Output Messages").{{< /alert >}}
```
